
Prof. Bimal Roy ISI, Kolkata

Professor, Applied Statistics Unit, ISI Kolkata,
Head, R C Bose Centre for Cryptology and Security

1982 Ph.D. in Combinatorics, University of Waterloo, Canada
1979 Master of Statistics – M.Stat.,Indian Statistical Institute,Kolkata
1978 Bachelor of Statistics – B.Stat. (Hons) ,Indian Statistical Institute,Kolkata

Padma Shri Award,Government of India,2015.
Teacher’s Award, Indian National Science Academy, 2014.
Fellow, Indian Society for Probability and Statistics, since 2014.
Fellow, National Academy of Sciences, India, since 2010.
Reliance Platinum Jubilee Award, National Academy of Science, India, 2007.
IBM Faculty Award for research, teaching and initiative in Cryptology, 2007.

Pioneered cryptology education and research in India. Instrumental in organizing national-level research and instructional workshops for students, young faculty members and researchers, to disseminate the state-of-the-art knowledge in cryptology.

Conceptualized and initiated the R.C. Bose Centre for Cryptology and Security at the Institute, aimed at marshaling of human and infrastructure resources for the purpose of inventing and developing avant-garde technologies that will address the cryptographic needs of our Nation. The Centre aims to act as a hub for all cryptographic requirements, cutting-edge research and relevant technology development in relevant fields, and will create a critical mass of researchers and experts in the country. Taught at Indian Statistical Institute for over 30 years, since 1984. Taught more than 60 courses, including almost all courses related to Statistics and Computer Science offered at all undergraduate and postgraduate levels of the Institute.

2. Prof.C.E.Veni Madhavan obtained his academic degrees, B.E.(Electrical
Engineering)  from  College  of  Engineering, Madras,  in  1969,  M.E  (Control  Systems) from BITS Pilani, in 1971 and PhD (Control theory) from Indian Institute of Science in 1975.  He  worked  in  the  industry,  Air  India  (1976-1977),  National  Informatics  Center (1977-1982),  before  he  joined  the  Computer  Science  and  Automation  department  IISc,  in  1983,  where  he  is  currently  a  professor.  His  teaching,  research  and   development  activities  are  in  the  areas  of  algorithms  for  geometric,  algebraic,  arithmetic   and   combinatorial   problems.   His   current   work   on   cryptanalysis   and steganalysis  are  on  the  problems  of  large-scale  integer  factoring  and  statistical  analysis.  His  recent  research  interests  include  cognitive  network  modeling  of  verbal  and  visual  fields.  He  has  worked  on  many  scientific,  industrial  consulting  and development  projects  sponsored  by  government  and  corporate  sectors  in  these areas.  He  has  published  over  60  papers  in  refereed  journals  and  conferences,  and delivered  over  100  invited  talks  in  national  conferences  and  universities.  He  has guided 14 PhD, 10 MS and over 80 ME theses. He has handled several R&D projects sponsored by government and industry. Recent major project engagements are in the
areas  of  cryptanalysis  (MCIT),  cryptography  (TCoE-DOT)  and  cognitive  networks (DST). He is the co-author of a recently published book on Public-key Cryptography. He  obtained  in  2001,  an  award  by  the  Mathematical  Association  of  India,  for distinguished  services  in  mathematics  education  and  research.    He  is  currently,  an  Associate  Faculty  of  the  Centre  for  Neuroscience  of  IISc.  He  is  also  the  Chief Executive of the Society for Innovation and Development (SID) of IISc. SID facilitates long  range  R&D  interactions  with  industry and  government  and  various  scientific outreach activities of IISc. He is closely associated with the professional bodies, the Cryptology Research Society of India, and the Ramanujan Mathematical Society. He also works very closely with the government policy and R&D funding panels of DST, MCIT, DRDO, IFCPAR and NRB in his capacity as Chairman or Member.




3. Subhamoy Maitra

Professor, Applied Statistics Unit, Indian Statistical Institute

Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & TeleCommunication from Jadavpur University, Calcutta (1988-1992) with marks 85.6% and rank 7th.

Master of Technology in Computer Science from Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta (1994-1996) with marks 90.7% and rank 1st. Awarded the “Indian Statistical Institute Alumni Association Medal” for outstanding performance in M.Tech. (CS)

PhD from Indian Statistical Institute, thesis entitled “Boolean Functions with Impor-
tant Cryptographic Properties”, 2001

Served in Governmental and Industry sponsored projects worth 2 million US$ in last 10 years. Taught 20 courses in last 10 years at B. Stat, M. Stat and M. Tech. level in the area of Computer Science. Each course is of approximately 50 hours per semester.


4. Dr PV Ananda Mohan

5.  Anish Mathuria

Anish Mathuria joined the DA-IICT faculty as Associate Professor in 2003, and was promoted to Professor in 2008. From 2000-2002, he was an Assistant Professor in Computer and Information Sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, USA. He received the Ph.D. and MS (Honors) degrees in Computer Science from the University of Wollongong, Australia, and a BE in Electronics Engineering from the University of Bombay. He has held positions at the IBM Tokyo Research Laboratory as a Postdoctoral Researcher (1997-98) and Visiting Scientist (1998-99). He has also worked for Siemens and Datamatics in India. While a postgraduate student at Wollongong, he received the 1997 Australian Computer Science Association Best Paper Award for the paper Causality, partial orders, and lower bounds on rounds for a class of authentication protocols.

Mathuria is co-author, with Colin Boyd, of the book Protocols for Authentication and Key Establishment, published by Springer. He has served on the program committees of the following conferences: Indocrypt 2004, Indocrypt 2007, ICISS 2008, and ICISS 2009.

6. Dr Srinathan Kannan

7. Dr. Ayineedi Venkateswarlu

Dr. Ayineedi Venkateswarlu received his M.Sc. in Mathematics from the University of Hyderabad and M.Tech. in Computer Science from the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. He received his Ph.D in Mathematics from the National University of Singapore in 2008. His research interests include Cryptology and Computer Algebra, more specifically sequences over finite fields, cryptographically significant boolean functions, computational aspects of algebra and number theory.

8.Dr S K Tiwari

9.Dr. Arpita Maitra

Dr. Arpita Maitra, currently Post doctoral research fellow, Centre for Theoretical Studies at Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur. PhD (Engg.) from Jadavpur University (Dept. of Computer Science & Engineering).
Title: Study in the Field of Quantum Information: Hadamard and QFT type Operations.
Master of Science in Physics from Calcutta University (1997-1999) with marks 68.2% (1st class Honours).
Bachelor of Science in Physics from Calcutta University (1994-1997) with marks 65.25% (1st class Honours).
Principal Investigator in the project “Study in the field of Quantum Information”, awarded by DST under the WOS-A scheme, hosted by Applied Statistics Unit, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata during August 1, 2011 – July 2014. The project budget was Rs.10,44,000/-.


10. Dr. Arpita Patra

Assistant Professor at Dept. of Computer Science & Automation (CSA), Indian Institute of Science Bangalore, India. Together with her students, she is part of the Cryptography and Information Security (CrIS) Lab. She is also associated with the Theoretical Computer Science Group at CSA.
Prior to coming to IISc, she spent three and half wonderful years as post-doctoral fellows at University of Bristol, UK (hosted by Prof. Nigel Smart), ETH Zurich, Switzerland (hosted by Prof. Ueli Maurer) and Aarhus University, Denmark (hosted by Prof. Ivan Damgaard) and as visitors at Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata, India (hosted by Prof. Bimal Roy) and Bar-Ilan University, Israel (hosted by Prof. Yehuda Lindell).
She spent five and half colorful years of my student life at IIT Madras doing PhD (with Prof. C. Pandu Rangan) and Master of Science by Research (with Prof. Sukhendu Das).
Born in a remote village of West Bengal, I graduated from Haldia Institute of Technology and completed my initial studies from Kumarpur Hateswar High School and Gobardhanpur Pramathanath Vidyayatan, West Bengal.
She works on Cryptography and Secure Distributed Computing.
Apart from science, she has artistic inclinations towards photography and writing.










